=begin html

<a name="Fernotron"></a>

<h3>Fernotron</h3>

<i>Fernotron</i> is a logic module to control shutters using Fernotron protocol. 
It generates commands wich are then send via <i>SIGNALduino</i>. <i>Fernotron</i> can also receive messages sent by other Fernotron controllers. The Fernotron shutters communicate unidirectional, so they don't sent any feedback information, like if they are currently open or close.



<h4>Pairing</h4>

Each controller has an uniq ID number. To pair a shutter to one or more controller(s), the shutter just remembers the ID of each controller.

Each receiver can rmember one central controller unit (incl the group and member numbers), one sun sensor and some plain up/stop/down switches.

Shutter motors have also an ID number printed on.  If you have no easy access to the pyhsical Set-Button of the shutter motor, that ID can be used to initiate pairing/unpairing or adjust rotation direction and end-positions. 
 


<h4>Defining Devices</h4>

Each device may control a single shutter, but could also control an entire group.
This depends on the ID and the group and member numbers.

<p>
				    
  <code>
    define <my_shutter> Fernotron a=ID [g=GN] [m=MN]<br>
  </code>			
		
<p> 
  ID : the device ID. A six digit hexadecimal number. 10xxxx=plain controller, 20xxxx=sun sensor, 80xxxx=central controller unit, 90xxxx=receiver<br>
  GN : group number (1-7) or 0 (default) for all groups<br>
  MN : member number  (1-7) or  0 (default) for all group members<br>

<p>
  'g' or  'n' are only useful combined with an ID of the central controller type. 

<p>
  Its also posssible to define a device which scans the commands sent by  other controllers

<p>
<code>
  define scanFerno Fernotron scan<br>
</code>


<h4>Different Kinds of Adressing</h4>

<ol>
  <li> Scanning physical controllers and use their IDs.
    Example: Using the  ID of a  2411 controller to access shutters via group and member numbers.</li>

  <li> Making up IDs and pair them with shutters.
    Example: Pair shutter 1 with ID 100001, shutter  2 with 100002, ...</li>

<li> Receiver IDs: RF controlled shutters may have a 5 digit code printed on or on a small cable sticker.
  Prefix a 9 with it and you get an ID.</li>
</ol>

<h4>Making Groups</h4>

<ol>
  <li>groups and members are the same like in 2411. Groups are adressed using the 0 as wildcard.  (g=1 m=0 or g=0 m=1 or g=0 m=0) </li>

  <li> Like with plain controllers. Example: a (virtual) plain controller paired with each shutter of the entire floor.</li>

  <li> not possible with reeiver IDs</li>
</ol>


<h4>Commands</h4>

<ul>
  <li>up</li>
  <li>down</li>
  <li>stop</li>
  <li>set  - make receiver ready to pair</li>
  <li>sun-down - move down until sun position (but only, if sun automatic is enabled)</li>
  <li>sun-inst - set the current position as sun position</li>
</ul>

<h4>Examples</h4>
<ol>
  <li><ul>
      <li>first scan the ID of the 2411: <code>define scanFerno Fernotron scan</code>.  Hold down the stop button of your 2411 some time. Now open the scanFerno on the FHEM web-interface.  The ID is found under Internals:received_HR</li>
      <li><code>define rollo42 Fernotron a=80808 g=4 m=2</code></li>
  </ul></li>

  <li><ul>
      <li><code>define rollo1 Fernotron a=100001 </code></li>
      <li>enable set mode on the receiver</li>
      <li>press stop for rollo1</li>
  </ul></li>

  <li><ul>
      <li><code>define rollo_0d123 Fernotron a=90d123</code></li>
  </ul></li>
</ol>
=end html
